# Generating-micro-Doppler-Maps-of-patient-activities-with-Generative-Adversarial-Network-GANs-
 generation of realistic samples with GAN can reduce the amount  of real data to collect. With up-sampling, down-sampling, and the  activity function we have used in our GAN, we were able to create  micro-Doppler data that is similar to the micro-Doppler data we  had. 

 Abstract—Nowadays Human Activity Recognition (HAR) is
 used in many areas. In the hospital field, we can use HAR for
 patients. But for privacy reasons cameras cannot be used in this
 f
 ield. As result, for this field, they started to use radar systems.
 With raw radar data, we can create Range Doppler (RD) maps
 and from RD maps we can create Micro Doppler maps (MD).
 From the MDmaps, wecan understand the activity of the patient
 in the rooms with neural networks. But to train neural networks
 and get better results we need to gather more data. Currently
 there is a way to generate data from the already existing data.
 GAN networks can generate artificial data by being trained by
 the original data. In the scope of the project the main purpose
 to use GAN to generate Micro Doppler maps in this field is,
 because, collecting real micro-Doppler examples is expensive, it
 requires access to restricted environments (hospitals), and the
 generation of realistic samples with GAN can reduce the amount
 of real data to collect. With up-sampling, down-sampling, and the
 activity function we have used in our GAN, we were able to create
 micro-Doppler data that is similar to the micro-Doppler data we
 had. Using the provided GAN architecture with a hardware that
 is a better fit than ours, the results can be improved.
 Index Terms—Human Activity Recognition, Supervised Learn
ing, Optimization, Generative Adverserial Networks, Neural
 Networks, Convolutional Neural Networks
 I. INTRODUCTION
 The aging population and the acute scarcity of medical
 professionals are two significant issues for today’s healthcare
 systems [1]. Patients are more frequently observed these days
 utilizing equipment ranging from IOT sensors to various
 medical sensors. One of the key components of numerous
 intelligent surveillance systems, from smart homes to patient
 health monitoring tools, is the identification of indoor human
 activity. Video cameras are frequently used as the main sensors
 in these surveillance systems. Wide viewing angles, high
definition resolution, and cost-effectiveness are some benefits
 of video-based surveillance systems. However, they exhibit
 fundamental flaws such as being ineffective in bad weather
 and low-light conditions, making it harder to spot people wear
ing disguises, etc. Moreover, video-based sensors are invasive
 and might not be a viable option in situations where privacy
 is vital. Radars, on the other hand, can function in a variety
 of hazardous situations, including rain, fog, dust, darkness,
 smoke, and heat. Radar devices are also non-intrusive and
 privacy-preserving, which makes it easier for them to be used
 in settings where privacy is highly valued. Additionally, they
 have the ability to detect through obstacles like walls or other
 obstructions [2]. The radar sensors are an obvious solution for
 indoor human activity detection where privacy is important
 because of these characteristics of the radar sensors.
 An electromagnetic radio signal is transmitted by a radar
 instrument in its line of sight, and targets and objects reflect
 this signal. After a brief interval, the receiver then picks up the
 signal that was reflected. The range and angle of the target are
 determined using the signal that was received. The frequency
 shift in the received signal can be utilized to track a moving
 target in order to calculate the moving object’s speed. The
 superposition of all the reflected signals can be visualized as
 a Micro-Doppler (MD) signature when there are numerous
 independently moving objects. In the scope of this project,
 public radar data generated in both hospital and homelab
 environment which is mentioned as an innovative 240 square
 meter independent residential test environment for IOT,ss used
 to train the GAN network to generate data, thus further labeled
 the generated data.
 The main contribution provided by this research is Human
 micro-Doppler data generation for patient activity recognition
 by using public data provided by X: Collection of real human
 micro-Doppler data is expensive in terms of cost and time
 which requires access to restricted environments such as
 hospitals which are almost always actively used for serving
 purposes. Generating human micro-Doppler data by GANs
 reduces the need to collect real data up to some extent.
 Moreover, being an active research topic, it is contributed to
 academia for further research. Instead, what can be considered
 as a secondary contribution of our research is ’Classification
 of the Data Generated by GAN’: There is not much work
 conducted, if not any, to generate human micro-doppler data
 further used to classify patient activity. The data generated by
 GANisfurther classified by a label that belongs to 14 different
 activity classes gathered by two different radars with respect
 to timestamps. More information regarding the different type
 of activities can be found in the paper X.
 The organization of this report (document) is as follows.
 In section II, we discuss previous research in the literature
 and contrast it with our own results. The processing pipeline
 is displayed in Section III. Information about signals and
 features is provided in Section IV. The project’s used learning
 framework is presented in Section V, and Section VI evaluates
 its effectiveness. The concluding remarks are found in Section
 VII.
 II. RELATED WORK
 Human activity recognition consists of many different hu
man behaviors, including walking, running, sitting, sleeping,
 standing and other anomalous behaviors. HAR has a variety
 of applications. It can be used to diagnose illnesses and keep
track of old folks. It can also aid in keeping an eye on illicit
 activity [1].
 HAR is applied using supervised and unsupervised models.
 A comprehensive deep learning algorithm was developed by
 Alazrai et al. to identify human-to-human interactions (HHI)
 from Wi-Fi signals. A well-known CSI dataset comprised
 of 13 human-to-human encounters with 40 different patient
 couples was used to assess this model. The planned model’s
 average accuracy in all of this was 86.3 percent.Through
 the use of an amalgamation of many convolutional neural
 networks, Zehra et al. developed HAR by using trained and
 evaluated several ensembles and CNN models. Comparatively
 speaking, the proposed ensemble model is more accurate than
 the established models. The primary benefit of this approach
 is the ability to extract model-relevant features. Because this
 model does not require pre-processing, training and testing are
 faster using it [2].
 Sikder et al. generated a dataset with labels that depicts hu
man actions including standing up, standing down, and lying
 down using an attached smartphone that has accelerometer
 and gyroscope. In order to enable the computer to compre
hend a variety of human actions, they additionally collected
 frequency and other information from human action signals
 using a two-channel convolutional neural network [3].
 Similar to Alazrai et al., Moshiri meat. al, tried to find
 correlation between WiFi signals and human movement to
 classify human activities using synthetic data and GAN. How
ever, they used synthetic data to reduce the cost of channel
 state information. They applied principal component analysis
 on amplitude of data and applied short time Fourier transform
 for feature extraction [4].
 The methods listed above demonstrate many approaches
 to human activity recognition by using neural networks. In
 contrast to previous projects, ours uses classified data and can
 generate realistic samples that reduces the amount of real data
 to be collected. Comparing to smart phone, radars can also
 provide patients using aids. Finally, our project is less costly
 in terms of equipment comparing to CSI based human activity
 recognition projects [4].
